and an Israeli air strike has hit a moss
compound in Janine in the West Bank
Israel's military said the building was
being used by militants to organize
attacks several people have been killed
the Israeli air strike is the latest in
recent days to hit the West Bank there
has been an increase in violence in the
area in the last two
weeks let's get more from our
correspondent Rebecca ritters in
Jerusalem uh Rebecca tell us more about
those overnight strikes in the West Bank
well CLA we had confirmation from the
Israeli military a little after 3:00
a.m. this morning that they had indeed
carried out this air strike as you just
mentioned they claimed that the the
mosque in the refugee camp was being
used to for as a compound for both
Islamic Jihad and Hamas militants who
they say were planning to carry out an
imminent attack that they had
intelligence of that and that's why they
decided to strike uh they also said that
these particular militants also carried
out uh attacks in recent weeks uh and so
they they needed to act that's uh
according to the Israeli military now
it's not the first time uh that Janine
has been struck by the air in summer in
the summer some people might remember
there was a a quite a significant raid
on the Janine Camp isra Israeli military
uh going in to try and Route out
militants as they say and try and take
away some of the uh Hardware ammunition
and and Destroy some of the other
compounds that used by militants in the
area now we we can't verify whether
these attacks were going to be carried
out obviously but we do know that Hamas
in Gaza has been calling on militants
all over the West B Bank to join in what
they call their the resistance join into
this war and and and pick up fighting
from the other front in the West Bank
that hasn't to this to this date hasn't
has not opened up yet but that is
certainly what Hamas uh operatives Hamas
militants in Gaza are calling for
Rebecca and you've been recently
reporting from the West Bank let's take
a look at one of your reports and then
we will come back to
you Friday prayers sound out in rala the
West Bank's biggest
city but the faithfuls prayers soon
turned to protest against Israel's
devastating strikes on
this woman says her whole family is
there shame for what is happening to
them they slaughtered children and women
we do not forgive the Arab countries
because they let us down they did not
stand by us they left us alone I hope
someone will listen we don't need empty
words we need someone that stands by
us and more and more feel that Hamas is
doing just that
we are your soldiers Muhammad daif they
chant praising hamas's military Wing
Commander the West Bank is not governed
by Hamas but by fut the party that
controls the Palestinian Authority or PA
it's widely seen as weak corrupt and
ineffective and now more than ever the
PA blames Israel and the West for its
fragile legitimacy growing by the day
don't forget last September Abu maazin
stood before the general assembly he had
made it clear that the International
Community is failing the Palestinians
that the Palestinian Authority has the
responsibility and obligation to protect
its people but Israel is making its
actions not on void Israel is putting
hurdles there are other hurdles for the
PA in the two weeks since hamas's attack
on Israel here in the West Bank at least
80 people have been killed in
confrontations with Israeli forces and
armed Jewish
settlers on Thursday an Israeli raid an
air strike on a refugee camp in the
region killed 13 people including five
children anger here is
growing this group of protesters may be
small but it's enough for the Israeli
military to take strong action up on the
hilltop you can see Israeli snipers
they've been shooting Liv pounds of
ammunition to these protesters who've
been burning fires and throwing stones
so far the paramedics say seven people
have been shot including one of their
own the West Bank is not a major focus
of the Israeli military response for now
but with the public losing even more
faith in the Palestinian Authority and
support for Hamas apparently growing
there is a fear here that that could
soon
change Rebecca thank you so much for
your reporting there did you get a sense
in your reporting that the conflict in
Gaza is indeed already spreading to the
West
Bank well when you speak to people in
the West Bank they talk about their fear
the biggest changes we've seen in the
last couple of weeks in the West Bank is
uh a significant deterioration of their
ability to move around we've seen
General strikes and we're seeing a rise
in settler of violence and you know
people saying that they're quite scared
to leave their homes to go out I mean in
cities like rala in the center it is
controlled by the Palestinian Authority
largely there uh not settlements in the
center of the city so people have sort
of more freedom of movement but moving
in between cities in the West Bank has
become increasingly hard checkpoints uh
have been bolstered extra checkpoints
have been put up so people talk about
the the the dire situation to their just
daily lives they're finding things a lot
harder but also there is a huge amount
of fear there as well people worried
that that that the West Bank is is also
going to be dragged into this conflict I
said in the report that it so far hasn't
really been a focal point for the
Israeli military but that they have
bolstered troops there they definitely
are keeping an eye on that area and as
we saw last night carrying out strikes
we saw another one uh on Thursday uh in
in another refugee camp further south
than Janine so it is something that the
Israeli military are concerned about and
and residents as well I mentioned also
the distrust of the PA I've been
reporting in the West Bank for a while
and when you speak to people uh for a
long time they've been saying that the
PA they haven't had elections they don't
feel represented they don't feel
supported and they don't feel secure
they don't feel that the Palestinian
Authority are offering them any kind of
safety or any defense uh but that has
just increased people used to not like
to talk about those things publicly when
now as you can see in that protest
people openly supporting Hamas even in
the center even in rala so we are seeing
changes there and of course everyone
watching very closely as to how that
will evolve in the the West Bank indeed
lots of concern internationally about
Potential spillover from this conflict
um this morning uh Syrian State media
reporting Israeli air strikes uh there
including on two airports what's the
latest you can tell us about a conflict
with Israel's
neighbors it's really hard to verify
information out of Syria as you can
imagine but we are getting those reports
that an airport was struck we're hearing
reports of a couple of casualties as
well though I won't say the figures
because they could rise and I I don't
have a way a way of verifying that
information so uh you know Israel has
not claimed responsibility for that
attack but we know that they they do
strike in Targets in Syria uh they do
even before this war started they they
target what they say is Munitions coming
in from Iran and and operatives uh
operating in Syria but they don't very
often comment on it now of course the
fear is the global fear the
international fear as well is that that
other countries particularly Lebanon and
Syria will get dragged into this that
Hezbollah the other terrorist
organization operating in southern
Lebanon uh that they they we've been
seeing tit fortat uh skirmishes or or uh
rocket fire I should say coming in from
Hezbollah Fighters as well uh Israeli
military retaliating Israeli military
watching that area really really closely
obviously that would be a huge
escalation that nobody uh Israelis or or
the international Community really
nobody wants to see we're seeing uh
support from the US B being bolstered in
the Mediterranean to try and prevent
that to try and deescalate the situation
uh and it's unfortunately a bit of a
wait and see as to just how involved we
know that Hezbollah have threatened they
said you know that that Israel will pay
a deer price if they were to go in in
this ground offensive this expected
ground offensive in Gaza there no way of
knowing whether or not that is what the
Israeli military you know we we believe
that this has been slightly delayed
we're of course expecting it but uh it
hasn't happened yet and perhaps that is
part of the reasoning why it hasn't
happened yet clear obviously a very
tense situation particularly on the
northern border the West Bank the other
front that's being watched and of course
the horrific scenes that we're we're
seeing in Gaza Rebecca thank you so much
for your reporting as Rebecca ritters
for us in
Jerusalem